For personal enrichment in the late 1980's I did take (off-duty while
still in active service with the USAF) courses at a local college in
COBOL, ADA, and IBM System 360 Assembler: still all on a main-frame,
batch job.

After retirement from the USAF on 1987-12-31, I was able to use my
USAF fighter pilot experience along with my programming experince to
get hired with the local Field Office of Oklahoma State University
(OSU-FO, a US DoD contractor) as a Senior Analyst and Branch Chief.

After my youngest child graduated from high school in 1991, I resigned
from OSU-FO and my wife and I rented our home and moved into a small
apartment near Clemson, South Carolina, where I was accepted as a
graduate student in Engineering Mechanics in Clemson
University's Department of Mechanical Engineering.

After two years and having finished all my courses, I left Clemson to
look for a real job and put my thesis on hold for a while.

I was fortunate to be hired as a Senior Analyst with another local DoD
contractor.  I was lucky enough in my last job to be hired as an
engineer with lots of latitude to get the job done.  I was usually
under pressure to complete tasks not directly resulting in software
deliveries, but requiring customized software tools to execute
long-running CAD programs and generate reports summarizing studies of
modeling weapons effects (WE) on various target vehicles. The work
involved heavy use of the US Department of Defense's CAD program
[BRL-CAD](https://brl-cad.org) (which was made open-source in
2004). The program as used in typical WE modeling tasks generates
hundreds of thousands of lines of ASCII output which has to be
analyzed and summarized and discussed in detail in published reports.
